+++
title = "62nd Design Automation Conference (DAC 2025)"
date = 2025-07-05
draft = false
description = ""

[extra]
new = true
+++

Moore's Lab:
https://vimeo.com/1094810357/40d8c41c9f?share=copy

Only 10% pass the enrollment interview and only 10% of that reach stage S.
In the past the Chinese had to beg to get English things translated into Chinese and now the Chinese are graciously translating their course materials into English for us
Chinese education, 10k students in one chip for life, can enroll from any university, only 10


Eda startup panel
Brian, Ai native chip design, it won't be candve or Synopsys lol, just like how Google search dominance is being threatened
Girl, cursor and copilot and Devin changing the sw paradigm of tasks that people do, and we can do the same for eda, Airbnb came out since Marriot and Hilton didn't innovate, we have shift in tech so we can think about asymmetrical upside, only need a few 100x upside
Erfan, coming from ai side, what made you come to eda with an ai background? Deepmind story around alphafold, needed John jumper, take worldw best biologists and worlds best ml scientists and put them together, so same idea here, bring in ml and chip people, so far has worked well, tsmc changes tairan, Samsung changed Korea, and in semidonducyors could build a company that could change the geopolitics. Lmao crazy guy. Design ai that designs the chip that unlocks ai and that is country changing technology lol
Erfan, how do you break past barriers like pdk, but he believes the bottleneck aren't tools or manufacturing, but only the human has failed to scale, first time for reasoning models to capture human reasoning and experience and that can scale with complexity, new paradigm, automate human intelligence, don't have to fight with incumbents, build on top of their tools, wants to work with incumbents and not overthrow them
Girl, look at the market as all of chip design not just the eda tools, alphafold needed the data plus the ai, the protein data was generated by a huge comoany, can automate what lmao ok... She seems like an airhead
Only two people to sell to in eda cad, Brian how do you see that as a VC? Ai has found best use case in supporting swes, try to hunt to apply that to eda, agentic or code gen on top of the chip design process, no breakouts out of series A just yet, still doesn't look too investable, lots of seed checks, but not yet a rush to back the next eda company, most VCs are looking for huge acquitions like becoming the next cadence, needs to see vision to go from small company and grow to that size over the next 10-20 years. Most founders say that they want to replace cadence eventually
We published a landscape map of the different players, see that LinkedIn post by the moderator, very few companies actually compared to other VC funded industries
Vinod, if you pitch to VC you are always going to pretend to overtake vc, you will never say you will get acquired for 100M lol, smart guy, we continue to work with startups. Lekevl 1 ai is applying ml for algorithms, level 2 documentation, level 3 reasoning, level 4 agentic AI and working with tools. Design ip companies need higher productivity so they want this agentic AI, that is the opportunity
Moderator you have LLMs and why shouldn't they use internally? Erfan, the pitch should be were competing with openai and Nvidia to design a chip to power the ai itself, not trying to compete with cadence lol, insane guy, the competition is not with eda vendors but people making most of the money on the stack, ok he understands that most models are good at generation and reasoning but not optimization which is what cad is. Moving away from auto regressive models to something that can do both optimization and generation and reasoning for semodonducyor design. Ok this sounds reasonable. Don't want mechanistic chain of thought
Girl, khosla, one large model to solve everything or just agents we don't know we invested in openai
Vinod, weather forecasting foundational models, an opportunity for unification, we want to get mileage out of huge foundation models but domain specialization is good too

Question to vinod, lynchpin of eda is static timing, do you think a new company can build a signoff quality static timing tool?
Vinod, how do you get trust? Very hard to build a new static timer, no need for a new one, need to do something more. Verif is the largest question for any gen ai thing, don't know without a person in the loop.

Questions, what do you think about open source strategies for startups? Tenstorrent riscv, quite open, is the disruption open eda? How are VCs ready for this investment?
Girl, we are ready to invest, we invested in gitlab, kg@khoslaventures.com we do this in sw side

It's still early days, seed and series A, but not big money, is this just a buzz? Or real?
Brian, I have no idea, interesting enough to pay attention, I'm curious but not high conviction
Girl, we invested in chipstack lmao, we have astris? Pnr for analog design. Cursor went fast in revenue, there is a chance here too

Advice for startups in this area?
Vinod, don't try to solve a problem that's already well solved, look at opportunity of how you can make enough money in the field, likely something new, don't replace the spanner but replace the guy making it
Erfan, don't lose faith, think from first principles, just have faith it will be rewarded
Girl, openai bets and ai agent bets are bullish even in semis, identify risk retirement order, attract the best talent you can to derisk
Brian, customer and team obsession needed for the founders, need absolute conviction, must believe you can do 10x better than the incumbents

Question, what changes will AI bring to the workflow?

Quaraion, new engineers in the industry have a higher expectation for the tools they use. Oh good point. For investors, for companies you backed, what is their thought process for building tools for themselves and vendors?
Brian, young engineers at etched were shocked that installing a cadence tool takes so long, they use LLMs all the time, moving things into Google sheets, cursor for reports lol, etched people ask if they can do anything with an llm when they see a new tool, today you need cadenece of Synopsys to build a high end chip but they're looking at better ways
Erfan, we have engagement with largest semi companies in the world, focus on the big guys over startups, we had them adopt our tools to get on top of trends, they are quite open

Quickturn guy

Coveragent, opentitan sram demo with their cover points, the agents run uvm simulations and get coverage feedback and then launch more simulations with different parameters lol, this is quite banal, progress search in an intelligent way lol, they produce directed tests that collectively attain coverage. So it does indeed use sequences and produce sequences and puts them together into directed tests that it generated by agents.

https://marketing.chip1.com/mychip1
https://explore.arteris.com/events/dac-2025
https://chipagents.ai/careers/forward-deployed-engineer
https://www.ycombinator.com/companies/bronco-ai
https://www.reddit.com/r/ycombinator/comments/13jicib/2nd_startup_officially_added_to_yc_s23/


Arteris
Mix of diplomacy and firrtl passes lol, so painful
This will be topstitch at openai lol
They couldn't really discuss the pd flow, they seem to deliver their noc as an encrypted blob of verilog that you must synthesize with the official cad tools


Day 2 view from wall street, jay from griffin
Cs of eda
Convergence, melding eda and industrial software, digital twins, integration of physics simulations and mechanics eg robotics and automotive
Core, core eda software, pure SW business, not ip or services, core eda revenue has decelerated into single digits, investor concern which explains the decline of enterprise values, offset by growth of IP and hardware
Concentration, eda vendor share of eda spend, big 4 have 92 percent share, increasingly dominant, mostly organic effects in the past few years, not via acquisitions of other eda companies, 8 percent is still a huge revenue share though
Customization, custom design from ip shops, domain specific apps, plan to see more from systems customers like Microsoft, Google, apple, customization of rack scale systems and IP, will require more core software consumption and ip from hyperscalers, the economic popl of Nvidia with 98B gross profit represents value that the eda vendors could retrieve for themselves lol with more customization for this one customer, willing to spend a lot for Nvidia specialization so they can redirect their money pool somewhere
Cake, from aniridh of cadence, 3 layers of ai, underlying compute, infrastructure of data centers, physical ai autonomous vehicles and robotics. Complexity is always good for eda, systems of systems lol,
China, major customer for eda, second largest ip market after the US, eda software market is huge, China eda SW is a tenth of the industry but ip was a fifth, mid teenth percentage of consumption in the world. Hard to forecast sanctions and tariffs and export controls effects
Eda is the further along in ai integration in their software, aec software like Autodesk and industrial software is behind, encourage eda companies to be more descriptive of the impact of AI in their tools lol
Intel eda spending was nearly 1B last year but they may have less capacity needs this year, they are the largest spender in eda surprisingly
Eda has very strong growth of pure play software companies
Siemens has immediate upfront revenue strategy which is why it is variable compared to other two which is subscriptuon based
Cadence growth over Synopsys is non organic mostly, cfd, electro thermal acquisitions
Growth was driven by custom ic design by software companies in the past 10 years, will this slow down now or has it peaked? Apple, ms, Facebook, Alibaba, etc. 40-45 percent of all total eda business is these non semiconductor houses.

Missing, x epic, s2c, codasip, other Chinese eda vendors and prototype board vendors, huins is still here
Baum is a cute Korean company, very cute stickers

Verific is very impressive, stable business, dominant in the market, even big 3 buys verific parsers since they are well architectures, they have a python API now too invio

Dylan is strong on the low level technology and packaging and high level rack scale integration and power and networking optics, weak on software stack, distributed systems, and on vlsi flow and computer architecture and uarch

Dylan slides
https://x.com/IanCutress/status/1937198181466730660

Cooley panel

Sam Appleton, Amit Gupta, ravi, dean, Paul Cunningham, prakash
To Siemens, Mike was supposed to be here, but it's you Amit, why are you here?
Calibre lost many people recently, are they in trouble? No lol, leading signoff platform lol, core tech team is still here, joe sawiki is gone, but it's ok, we're rewriting calibre over and over again, esd signoff, investing in more adjacent projects, 49/50 semi companies using calibre
Paul, why does pegasus fail? Only ti came to you from calibre. 40-50% of the calibre codebase gets updated every 2-3 years from Amit. Pegasus, truly parallelized and distributed, it does take time, lol making excuses, Paul says that virtuoso is tightly integrated with pegasus and analog guys use it
Ravi Synopsys, does ic validator replace calibre? For everything? Answer is yes lol, 300 customers, ic validator had grown, complete replacement ibm, ericson, cerebrus, astera labs,
Amit, customers want to use calibre earlier in the design cycle, and the same calibre, calibre recon for lva and drc.
Palladium chip is done with pegasus, full reticle 5nm chip, used pegasus for signoff exclusively

Paul, big data into ml into ai, now agentic AI lol, what has actually changed, who is using it for production now as an ai tool, hand vs today ai
Paul is shillikg licensing a tool vs licensing a human type thing lmao, that transition is happening lmao, Cooley is mocking him
Cerebrus automating pnr tuning for better ppa, verif using ai for randomization and root cause, 18 of top 20 are deploying ai driven verification lol, analog migration with ai
Paul, fuse ai with underlying algorithms, lol a bit non agentic,
Cooley, can i mix tools from other vendors?
Paul, if the ai is fused with the underlying tool, then we can't use external things, like fusing the randomization engine with ai
Cooley, are we cadence locked?
Paul, only get locked in if ppa goes up lol, mcp allows agentic tools to communicate in the future, multi vendor flows happening later

Ravi how nice is the Synopsys prison vs the cadence one? Phase 1 is rl based eda, talk about data lmao, dso.ai, Sony, st micro, Samsung, reading off his customer sheet lol, engine and rl are locked together, can't mix from other vendors this way, renesas, mediatek, amd, he's just reading marketing material on his phone lol
The next stage is gen ai, this guy is a meme, gen ai is the first phasd when you can see if the vendors work together
Then the next stage is agentic AI, then you can see vendor interop later, agents orchestrate which tools to use
Paul, since humans are multi vendor so so can agents, no prisons lol
Amit, what about you with AI? Founded solito in 2005, applied ai to eda, ml rl is mature ai we are honing, by 2017 we had lots of semi companies using our sw, Synopsys acquired us. We used simulator independent flow and ml. He believes we can do ml independently from the engine, we can decouple them.
He is really good at shilling Siemens eda.
Ravi, Synopsys has had agentic AI before Siemens lol,
Paul, focus on the agents themselves lol, what can they do? Just blabbering, chance to combine LLMs with tooling lol what

Cooley, prakash, are you in trouble? You don't have a prison, your tool is outside that, you're not in the party. Smaller company, can't aspire to build a prison, ai has to fuse with the underlying technology, their focus is at the core technology space, minimally Boolean, simulation is the main workhorse, built on a Boolean engine, same with formal, we build custom apps that can use minimally Boolean techniques that have capacity and runtime advantages, sentry can do 100M gates in a few hours unlike formal tools, but these apps must be custom, cdc, rdc, connectivity, dft, advantage to the user over jasper using a different core technology,
Paul, we don't have prison mindset, we work with real intent lol, we don't need to diffntiate jasper cdc with real intent
Prakash, we released cdc link to cadence simulator, we worked together
Ravi, is real intent allowed into your flow? Only if a customer asks us to do that, no comment. Model of prison vs country club, anyone can be a member with enough money lmao.

Sam, you're working on a tool about sta constraints? Working with cadence and Synopsys flow. Do you have a chance to survive?
Sam, I believe we can get it. New product, shift left lol, your golden constraints can't be used for signoff due to post optimized design changes. Our tool migrates constraints from the golden start to the final signoff, sounds odd.

Paul, how do you know whether you have good constraints for sta? We rely on gl sims since we don't trust final constraints. This is a good place.
Ravi, we talk with ausdia, but this is a hard problem, we need 5 years to fix this problem

Dean, NetApp is a huge company, they make a lot of money in hybrid cloud, you have a tiny company 30M vs 6B, why are you fighting a battle you're going to lose? Ic manage is a loser.
Dean, big market in data movement and job execution, 3 places to attack, 1 NFS bottleneck, 2 data locality across data centers, 3 storage costs in cloud skyrocket, holodeck addressed these problems lol, NFS was designed for local networks concurrency is not good, but eda requires lots of concurrency, NFS designed with lots of round-trips so latency messes that up, NFS needs engineers moving data around, and replication, we eliminate storage costs

Ravi, why do you call zebu an emulator, it is a prototyping solution, you aren't doing fast compilers, it's all fpgas. Zebu gets full visibility, all registers. But compile times are bad. Zebu for rtl verif and regression, dft, sw bringup. Not the leader in compile time, but leader in performance. All the hyperscalers are using zebu for emulation, perf, time to model, compile time leaders, supposedly.
Paul, use fpga for perf, but Asics emulation for compile time and flexibility, 450B gates sold, 50 wins, over zebu, very confident in protium and palladium, palladium and then transition to fpgas, 48B gate systems are running on palldium today
Ravi is coping hard, he claims the 7nm fpga doesn't matter, hardware doesn't matter just the amount of capacity sold
Amit, veolce cs, 11B gate design on 4 towers by arm, crystal x chip and auto partitioning, 5x less power than palladium, all air cooled still
Paul, it is just about power density
Ravi claims 60-80B gate designs on zebu lmao
Paul is telling this is bs lmao, Google tpu uses palladium, power per gate for palladium is less than fpga
Amit, veloce, arm, cix, nxp, marvell, Google
Paul is mocking, saying this is just the fpga veloce not the cs one lol

You guys are using the same xilinx chip. Why is it different?
Paul, our fpga system has integrated palladium compiler lol,
Ravi, it's not vivado and done, we have to analyze and partition, they have big AMD partnership for end to end bringup time, EP different sw stacks for emulation and prototyping mode on the same hardware with haps and zebu, same fpga device
Amit, we can scale to 60 racks with 1902 profpga




Prakash real intent
Minimally Boolean, try to use as much abstraction as possible and then use static. Much better to have 10 false positives in 5 minutes and then prune them manually with refinement rather than use formal and get results in 2 hours or never.

Keynote day 1

See all my photos, then the next slides are about reasoning models, arc agi saturation, examples of arc agi 2 benchmarks
The DARPA AI next white paper thing from 2017 seems quite precient and interesting, link it
They claim agents can work for 10 hours automously
They want to work on science and materials discovery using agents, chemistry, 70 percent less lithium, ai makes new material that could dramatically change batteries
I recall this thing seemed fishy, chemists thought this was mostly nonsense
Pair search with validation and physical screening and in silico screening
Capture the scientic method within an agent, lol this is too simplistic and mechanical, he never mentions that
Monkeypox vaccine query runs for 4 hours
https://biomni.stanford.edu/
Drug discovery is just too mechanical
Everyone has lost patience with this guy, just boring now, agents and search and blah blah, random medical things that everyone knows is just blind search
Relying on the llm to setup the physical lab environment is already conceding that you are clueless to modify or question the methodology itself! It just reinforces existing biases and plans, this is even worse than a human doing things and eventually coming to question them such as statistical methods or experimental setups and controls
Look thru the scientic literature, state of the art, lmao, this is just nonsense, doesn't have the ability to produce a scientific revolution, but neither do most scientists to be fair, the premises are never questioned or scrutinized!
The literature consistency and reproducibility is also not scrutinized, all the results are taken as fact, and this will just reinforce falsities and incorrect hypotheses
Lmao their silicon agent thing is just like chipagents, over engineered agent structure and explicit control paths will eventually hamper mechanical llm automation
This insistence on the scientific method as aechanical process is the problem, there is no place for questioning the process, or the importance of intuition and leaps of abstraction

Preshow lol

https://github.com/NVlabs/cvdp_benchmark
https://www.chipstack.ai/blog/why-llms-are-best-thing-for-chips
One more reddi
https://www.linkedin.com/posts/vijay-janapa-reddi-63a6a173_here-is-all-the-science-at-risk-in-trump-activity-7342918024200392706-uSmM?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_android&rcm=ACoAAAVUAnMBjBFeQj_67eMIA1E2610ABsluQic
https://semianalysis.com/2025/06/23/nvidia-tensor-core-evolution-from-volta-to-blackwell/

