+++
title = "The New Beijing"
date = 2025-05-10
draft = true
slug = "the-new-beijing"
description = ""
+++

- [In the new Beijing](https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v47/n06/long-ling/diary) [archive](https://archive.is/rFwoz)

What should be done with surveilance? The life of the typical Chinese is so banal that the surveilance officer would die of boredom in a matter of days. China had a huge theft problem - bars on windows were the norm like they still are in many 3rd world countries. No longer, the Chinese cracked down and then had pervasive camera surveillance. With this, even if the punishment for petty theft is small, everyone knows they would be caught and the shame of that is enough.

Why should the Chinese pledge fealty to this foreign principle that has no basis in traditional Chinese political thought? This is a completely Western concept that was unknown until the formation of the US. The notion that any arbitrary citizen (and even foreign visitor as some argue) should have unrestrained political speech, right to protest and agitation is unprecedented.

- The Chinese are dealing with the cards they are dealt. Delivery areas in China. How much value is generated by the Chinese government enforcing the basic laws?
  - Chinese self-pickup / delivery centers (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_c4AzehI_1c)

- What political dissent is acceptable? The Chinese have to make rational tradeoffs - they are a pragmatic people. This is a state that over the past 5000 years has been dealing with peasant revolt after revolt, random killings and wars where millions die. We just saw the natural state of the Chinese during the Coronavirus panic - hysteria, crazy overreactions (photo of swabbing a fish with garbage PCR tests), and then sudden reversal.

- The role of the Great Firewall is to keep the outside out, not the Chinese in. VPNs are exceedingly common among average Chinese, which makes viewing the global internet easy for them. But it keeps the website inside China exclusive to China. I don't have enough knowledge about Chinese social media and forums to comment on the benefits of this.

- They don't see anything wrong with face recognition - used for everything increasingly in China. Social credit is seen as whatever - of course we need to prevent insane peasants from travelling abroad and ruining the reputation of Chinese tourists.


- The talent card is a great idea. Why are there any Chinese professors remaining in the US? Especially as many of these profs have all foreign Chinese groups in the US too? And the entire group speaks in Chinese? There are plenty of examples of this all throughout American academia. Go to China!

- https://chatgpt.com/c/67eddc32-75c8-8004-8610-6860a403c954 (chat about chinese uprisings and governing philosophy)
- https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Hukou (another example of chinese trying to prevent the downsides of mass urbanization and population concentration that has affected Korean and Japan greatly)
  - This has been greatly criticized within China as a method of restricting social and economic mobility, but the Chinese know they can't allow city concentration for other reasons that outweigh the one-generation time horizon.

- https://x.com/gaulicsmith/status/1919576919005131071
  - Lots of China doomers talking about how they stopped publishing some economic data a few years ago
  - The Chinese economy is certainly set for a correction, but the true productive output of China is undeniable
  - The major problems in China are societal, but driven partially by economics. Massive youth unemployment, elite overproduction, useless college degrees, very high density living, persistently high costs for high-value items (similar prices to the West with far less purchasing power), birthrate collapse and single proliferation, "education" to death, IQ shredder where low IQ manual workers reproduce while the high IQ move to cities and die off (e.g. ultra low birthrate in Shanghai), artificial currency devaluation, coming pension pain, covid freakout, lack of economic liberalization and extreme malinvestment due to excess government central planning, lack of inherent risk taking behaviors to build a strong venture playground, seeing the consequences of the one child policy, weak equity markets and savings vehicles, inability to derisk inflation leading to real estate speculation and bubbles. Insistence on college education has produced a situation where a huge chunk of the economy relies on unskilled labor but they can't raise wages nor will "educated" people be willing to work such jobs. Domestic consumption is hard to keep ginning up as the population ages, relies on fixed income, and the youth are mired in unemployment. FDI is non-existent. Goods quality is still low, outside a few sectors, materials can't be trusted by outside customers (let alone inside).
- https://x.com/GrahamGreeneEsq/status/1919415175217607018
  - Really interesting story in the WSJ today about China’s vanishing public data. It seems likely that China’s birth rate is far lower than official estimates, which already paint a pretty dire picture.
  - https://www.wsj.com/world/china/china-economy-data-missing-096cac9a?st=j7V11b&reflink=article_copyURL_share
