
- [In the new Beijing](https://www.lrb.co.uk/the-paper/v47/n06/long-ling/diary) [archive](https://archive.is/rFwoz)

What should be done with surveilance? The life of the typical Chinese is so banal that the surveilance officer would die of boredom in a matter of days. China had a huge theft problem - bars on windows were the norm like they still are in many 3rd world countries. No longer, the Chinese cracked down and then had pervasive camera surveillance. With this, even if the punishment for petty theft is small, everyone knows they would be caught and the shame of that is enough.

Why should the Chinese pledge fealty to this foreign principle that has no basis in traditional Chinese political thought? This is a completely Western concept that was unknown until the formation of the US. The notion that any arbitrary citizen (and even foreign visitor as some argue) should have unrestrained political speech, right to protest and agitation is unprecedented.

- The Chinese are dealing with the cards they are dealt. Delivery areas in China. How much value is generated by the Chinese government enforcing the basic laws?
  - Chinese self-pickup / delivery centers (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=_c4AzehI_1c)

- What political dissent is acceptable? The Chinese have to make rational tradeoffs - they are a pragmatic people. This is a state that over the past 5000 years has been dealing with peasant revolt after revolt, random killings and wars where millions die. We just saw the natural state of the Chinese during the Coronavirus panic - hysteria, crazy overreactions (photo of swabbing a fish with garbage PCR tests), and then sudden reversal.

- The role of the Great Firewall is to keep the outside out, not the Chinese in. VPNs are exceedingly common among average Chinese, which makes viewing the global internet easy for them. But it keeps the website inside China exclusive to China. I don't have enough knowledge about Chinese social media and forums to comment on the benefits of this.

- They don't see anything wrong with face recognition - used for everything increasingly in China. Social credit is seen as whatever - of course we need to prevent insane peasants from travelling abroad and ruining the reputation of Chinese tourists.


- The talent card is a great idea. Why are there any Chinese professors remaining in the US? Especially as many of these profs have all foreign Chinese groups in the US too? And the entire group speaks in Chinese? There are plenty of examples of this all throughout American academia. Go to China!
